Male Domination
Females were expected to be wives or slaves
In the adults talk-story, we learned that females failed if they grew up to be but wives or slaves. As they could be heroines or swordswomen. 
The author's mother would tell the author that the author would grow up a wife and a slave.
 Chinese executed women who disguised themselves as
soldiers or students, no matter how bravely they fought or how high
they scored on the examinations.

Theft
The thieves had stolen the harvests, to avenge it, the author would stay with the old people to train to become a warrior. 
, fat men ate
meat; fat men drank wine made from the rice; fat men sat on naked
little girls. I watched powerful men count their money, and starving
men count theirs. When bandits brought their share of raids home, I
waited until they took off their masks so I would know the villagers
who stole from their neighbors. I studied the generals’ faces, their
rank-stalks quivering at the backs of their heads. I learned rebels’
faces, too, their foreheads tied with wild oaths.
“I am a female avenger.”
Then—heaven help him—he tried to be charming, to appeal to
me man to man. “Oh, come now. Everyone takes the girls when he
can. The families are glad to be rid of them. ‘Girls are maggots in
the rice.’ ‘It is more profitable to raise geese than daughters.’” He
quoted to me the sayings I hated.


Menstrual days did not interrupt my training; I was as strong as
on any other day. “You’re now an adult,” explained the old woman
on the first one, which happened halfway through my stay on the
mountain. “You can have children.” I had thought I had cut myself
when jumping over my swords, one made of steel and the other
carved out of a single block of jade. “However,” she added, “we are
asking you to put off children for a few more years.”

We had lost males before, cousins
and uncles who were conscripted into armies or bonded as
apprentices, who are almost as lowly as slave girls.

giant’s wives crying. They had
climbed out of their palanquins to watch their husband fight me,
and now they were holding each other weeping. They were two
sisters, two tiny fairies against the sky, widows from now on. Their
long undersleeves, which they had pulled out to wipe their tears,
flew white mourning in the mountain wind.

I searched the house, hunting out people for trial. I came upon a
locked room. When I broke down the door, I found women,
cowering, whimpering women. I heard shrill insect noises and
scurrying. They blinked weakly at me like pheasants that have been
raised in the dark for soft meat. The servants who walked the ladies
had abandoned them, and they could not escape on their little
bound feet. Some crawled away from me, using their elbows to pull
themselves along. These women would not be good for anything. I
called the villagers to come identify any daughters they wanted to
take home, but no one claimed any. I gave each woman a bagful of
rice, which they sat on. They rolled the bags to the road. They
wandered away like ghosts. Later, it would be said, they turned into
the band of swordswomen who were a mercenary army. They did
not wear men’s clothes like me, but rode as women in black and red
dresses. They bought up girl babies so that many poor families
welcomed their visitations. When slave girls and daughters-in-law
ran away, people would say they joined these witch amazons. They
killed men and boys. I myself never encountered such women and
could not vouch for their reality.

When one of my parents or the emigrant villagers said, “‘Feeding
girls is feeding cowbirds,’” I would thrash on the floor and scream
so hard I couldn’t talk. I couldn’t stop.
“What’s the matter with her?”
“I don’t know. Bad, I guess. You know how girls are. ‘There’s no
profit in raising girls. Better to raise geese than girls.’”
“I would hit her if she were mine. But then there’s no use wasting
all that discipline on a girl. ‘When you raise girls, you’re raising
children for strangers.’”
“Stop that crying!” my mother would yell. “I’m going to hit you if
you don’t stop. Bad girl! Stop!” I’m going to remember never to hit
or to scold my children for crying, I thought, because then they will
only cry more.
“I’m not a bad girl,” I would scream. “I’m not a bad girl. I’m not a
bad girl.” I might as well have said, “I’m not a girl.”
“When you were little, all you had to say was ‘I’m not a bad girl,’
and you could make yourself cry,” my mother says, talking-story
about my childhood.
I minded that the emigrant villagers shook their heads at my
sister and me. “One girl—and another girl,” they said, and made our
parents ashamed to take us out together. The good part about my
brothers being born was that people stopped saying, “All girls,” but I
learned new grievances. “Did you roll an egg on my face like that
when I was born?” “Did you have a full-month party for me?” “Did
you turn on all the lights?” “Did you send my picture to
Grandmother?” “Why not? Because I’m a girl? Is that why not?”
“Why didn’t you teach me English?” “You like having me beaten up
at school, don’t you?
